---
layout: post
title:  "Change"
date:   2014-02-17 12:10:00
---

Towards the end of last year I'd say I made a fair few big changes in my life. I upped sticks to another part of Bristol, moved in with my girlfriend, and to top it off I also decided to change jobs &mdash; all at the same time!

What brought on the sudden change was Penny uprooting from Peterborough to Bristol, just as I did three years ago.

I first came to Bristol because I manged to nab a job at the illustrious [Aardman Animations](http://www.aardman.com) as their humble junior web developer. This was on an initial four month contract and I didn't have much hope for sticking around in Bristol. That was until I fell in love with the city, and Aardman also kindly decided to keep me on a more permanent basis.

Now three years down the line, it's time to move on. I owe a lot to Aardman, especially the brilliant team of friends I got to work with. It's definitely been a once in a life time experience.

{% include img.html src="aardman-group-photo.jpg" alt="Aardman Animations company photo" %}

My time there was nothing short of awesome. Thank-you guys.

## Where am I now?

I'm working at [Simpleweb](http://simpleweb.co.uk). It was big move for me, but I'm pleased to say it was the right one. The team is great, I get to design and build sweet web applications, I'm learning new things again and I've got the motivation back to make things in my spare time.

To end, here's a few simple (and probably clich&eacute;d) things I've learnt. Change is good, don't be scared of it. If you're not learning anything new in what you do day to day, stop and do something about it.
