---
layout: post
title:  "Burgers"
date:   2016-03-22 12:00:00
---

I like burgers, **a lot**. And after frequenting Bristol's many burger joints I
wanted to try and make my own _ultimate_ burger.

As I wanted it to be a meal I could easily knock up after work, some
self-imposed rules were put in place: simple to cook, do-able in under 15
minutes, ingredients could be grabbed from the weekly supermarket shop and more
importantly it had to have maximum flavor.

Here's my method and ingredients so far in my quest for the best homemade
after work burger.

### Fries

First things first, there's nothing fancy here. Get the oven on and chuck a load
of skinny frozen fries in there. This is your countdown timer, they should
typically take around 15 minutes at 180c.

### Buns

Finding the right bun is hard. They have to be tough enough to not fall apart
when taking on the sauces and juicy meaty fluids from the patties but keep from
being really heavy going and filling you up.

I've narrowed it down to these sesame seed brioche buns. They fit the bill
perfectly, add a little sweetness and have that authentic burger look.

{% include img.html src="burgers/1.JPG" alt="Step 1" %}

Get a non-oiled pan up to temperature and cut the buns with a sharp bread knife
and toast them off until they're a little charred.

{% include img.html src="burgers/2.JPG" alt="Step 2" %}

### Greens (minimal)

While they're in the pan, tear up some lettuce to roughly the same shape as the
buns. Just enough to add some crunch.

{% include img.html src="burgers/3.JPG" alt="Step 3" %}

### Back to the buns

After a few minutes the buns should be nice and toasty. I'm doing burgers for
the two of us in the evening so we're at the 10 minute mark by now.

{% include img.html src="burgers/4.JPG" alt="Step 4" %}

### Meat

With the pan still hot, add a splash of oil and lay down your patties. I'm using
Sainsbury's Ultimate Steak Burgers. Each side wants a few minutes just to seal
and brown off. Then just keep flipping them occasionally.

{% include img.html src="burgers/5.JPG" alt="Step 5" %}

### Sauces at the ready

After trying lots of BBQ sauces, Red's Unholy Barbecue Sauce is by far the best
I've ever had in or out of a restaurant. There mustard is also pretty damn
good and punches through with a sharp flavor.

{% include img.html src="burgers/6.JPG" alt="Step 6" %}

### Bacon

About 5 minutes into the burgers cooking add smoked streaky bacon. This is where
the magic happens. As the bacon starts to cook, all the fats start to mix
together and really bring out that nice meaty taste you want from a burger.

{% include img.html src="burgers/7.JPG" alt="Step 7" %}

### Back to the sauce

While the meat is cooking away, prep the toasted buns with a nice lining of
Red's mustard, the lettuce can then sit on top to await it's meaty crown.

{% include img.html src="burgers/8.JPG" alt="Step 8" %}

### Crisp up

A few minutes before the end your bacon should be looking nice and crispy, time
to quickly nip the burgers out of the pan.

{% include img.html src="burgers/9.JPG" alt="Step 9" %}

### Drain

Grab a sharp knife and make small slices in the top of the burgers. Give them
a good press while on some kitchen towels to get rid of any excess juices.

{% include img.html src="burgers/10.JPG" alt="Step 10" %}

### Cheese

Return them to the pan, pop a nice slide of cheddar on top and lay the bacon
on as well. This should start to fuse the burger, cheese and bacon together.
Tip, leave the sliced cheese out of the fridge for a good 30 minutes beforehand
to soften up.

{% include img.html src="burgers/11.JPG" alt="Step 11" %}

### Stack

The chips should be nearing the end, scoop the burgers up and place into the
buns. Add plenty of BBQ suace, sprinkle with onions and pop the top of the bun
on.

{% include img.html src="burgers/12.JPG" alt="Step 12" %}

### Serve

And serve it like a trendy restaurant for fun?

{% include img.html src="burgers/13.JPG" alt="Step 13" %}

### Eat (and drink)

Add your favorite drink (naturally, cider for me) and enjoy.

{% include img.html src="burgers/14.JPG" alt="Step 14" %}

### Fin

Well, I'm going to continue tweaking my burger method as there's always some
room for improvement. If you have any tips of your own, do please share.

Next is the weekend burger. I'm hoping to make some steak burgers from scratch
and have some nice hand cut chips. Maybe even cure my own bacon.

Mmm... bacon.
